A Linux file system is a structured collection of files on a disk drive or a partition. 
A partition is a segment of memory and contains some specific data. In our machine,
 there can be various partitions of the memory. Generally, every partition contains a file system.
The Linux file system contains the following sections:

     1 The root directory (/)
     2 A specific data storage format (EXT3, EXT4, BTRFS, XFS and so on)
     3 A partition or logical volume having a particular file system.
 
 EXT3 :
    ext3, or third extended filesystem, is a journaled file system 
    that is commonly used by the Linux kernel.The performance (speed) of ext3 
    is less attractive than competing Linux filesystems, such as ext4, JFS, ReiserFS,
     and XFS, but ext3 has a significant advantage in that it allows in-place upgrades 
     from ext2 without having to back up and restore data.

EXT4 :
    The ext4 journaling file system or fourth extended filesystem is a journaling file system 
    for Linux, developed as the successor to ext3.ext4 was initially a series of backward-compatible
     extensions to ext3, many of them originally developed by Cluster File Systems for the Lustre file
      system between 2003 and 2006, meant to extend storage limits and add other performance improvements.
      However,other Linux kernel developers opposed accepting extensions to ext3 for stability reasons.
XFS :
    XFS is a high-performance 64-bit journaling file system created by Silicon Graphics, Inc (SGI) in 1993.
    XFS excels in the execution of parallel input/output (I/O) operations due to its design, which is based
     on allocation groups (a type of subdivision of the physical volumes in which XFS is used- also shortened to AGs)  

   EXT3, EXT4 & XFS are now outdated. Now-a-days people use NTFS & FAT.
NTFS :
    NTFS (New Technology File System) is a proprietary journaling file system developed by Microsoft.Starting
    with Windows NT 3.1, it is the default file system of the Windows NT family.
    NTFS has several technical improvements over the file systems that it superseded – File Allocation Table (FAT) 
    and High Performance File System (HPFS) – such as improved support for metadata and advanced data structures to
    improve performance, reliability, and disk space use. Additional extensions are a more
    elaborate security system based on access control lists (ACLs) and file system journaling.    
FAT :
     Linux has several filesystem drivers for the File Allocation Table (FAT) filesystem format.All of the
      Linux filesystem drivers support all three FAT types, namely FAT12, FAT16 and FAT32. Where they differ
       is in the provision of support for long filenames      